Ans 1 - A database is a collection of interrelated data. It's a collection of information that is organised so that it
            can be easily accessed, managed and updated.Databases are used to store and manage large amounts of structured and unstructured data, and they can be used to support a wide range of activities, including data storage, data analysis, and data management.
They are used in a variety of settings, including business, scientific, and government organizations.


Ans 2 - A file-based storage system is a traditional approach to storing and managing data, where data is stored in individual files on a computer's file system. Each file contains a collection of records, with each record representing an entity or object in the system
            Challenges :-
        1) Data Redundancy 
        2) Data Inconsistency
        3) Performance Issues


Ans 3 - DBMS(Database Management System) is a software which helps us establish and implement a database.
            It consists of programs which heilps in storing, retrieving and manipulating data while considering appropriate 
            safety measures. One of the primary needs for a DBMS is data organization and management. DBMSs allow data to be stored in a structured manner, which helps in easier retrieval and analysis.



Ans 4 - 1) Data Redundancy: It is possible that the same information may be duplicated in different files but in relational DBMS chances are very less.
             2) Data Inconsistency.
             3) Difficulty in Accessing Data.
             4) Limited Data Sharing.
             5) Integrity Problems.

Ans 5 - Database management systems can be classified based on a variety of criteria such as the data model, the database distribution, or user numbers. The most widely used types of DBMS software are relational, distributed, hierarchical, object-oriented, and network.

Ans 6 - Data models are a foundational element of software development and analytics. They provide a standardized method for defining and formatting database contents consistently across systems, enabling different applications to share the same data.

Ans 7 - 1. Internal Level
            DBMS Three schema Architecture
         1) The internal level has an internal schema which describes the physical storage structure of the database.
         2) The internal schema is also known as a physical schema.
         3)  It uses the physical data model. It is used to define that how the data will be stored in a block.
        4)  The physical level is used to describe complex low-level data structures in detail.

2. Conceptual Level
           DBMS Three schema Architecture
1) The conceptual schema describes the design of a database at the conceptual level. Conceptual level is also known as logical level.
2) The conceptual schema describes the structure of the whole database.
3) The conceptual level describes what data are to be stored in the database and also describes what relationship exists among those data.
4) In the conceptual level, internal details such as an implementation of the data structure are hidden.
5) Programmers and database administrators work at this level.

3. External Level
DBMS Three schema Architecture
1) At the external level, a database contains several schemas that sometimes called as subschema. The subschema is used to describe the different view of the database.
2) An external schema is also known as view schema.
3) Each view schema describes the database part that a particular user group is interested and hides the remaining database from that user group.
4) The view schema describes the end user interaction with database systems.
